3.12
	- faster low-level locks
	- timerless multiasking

3.13
	- multi-queue block layer for SSDs
	- nftables - successor to iptables
	- nfc payment support

3.14
	- deadline scheduler - better realtime scheduling
	- zram moves to mainline
	- kernel address space randomization
	- antibufferbloat packet scheduler

3.15
	- faster resume from suspend
	- faster erase and zero parts of a file
	- file cross-rename
	- fuse write performance speedups

3.16
	- unified control group heirachy
	- tcp fast open on ipv6
	- CONFIG_USB_DEBUG removed
	- loopback NFS now works
	- 32bit VDSO gettimeofday() on 64bit kernels

3.17
	- file sealing - memfd
	- thunderbolt on Apple hardware
	- getrandom() syscall
	- signed kexec kernels


3.18
	- unionfs
	- eBFP - extended Berkeley packet filter bfp() syscall
	- f2fs supports atomic writes and trim
	- small packet network packet improvements - drive highspeed interfaces at full wire speed.

Future
	- live kernel patching
	- kdbus
	- kselftests
	- O_BENEATH?
	- cgroup namespaces?  virtualize cgroups
	-


feature overload:

btrfs offline
AMD Radeon boost
GPU switching
separate GPU device nodes
timerless multiasking
RAID5 multithreading
lockref
better OOM
XFS recursion
tty lock rework
IPC lock rework
seqlock
idr
inittmpfs
restricted sysfs
cachefiles
soft module dependancies
aio ring page migration
aio deferred completion
fair zone allocator
hugepage node migration
ssd block allocation
swap per-cpu allocation
swap discard async
detect hybrid MBRs
dm cache block size limits

btrfs compressed extents
btrfs UUID rework
ext4 pre-cacheing
ext4 external journal
ext4 corrupt marking
ext3 external journal
xfs object readahead
f2fs inline xattrs
f2fs garbage control
pstore compression
pstore decompression
pstore extensions
ceph punch hole
hfs ACLS
isofs RW rework
udf RW rework

TCP_NOTSENT_LOWAT
TSO autosizing
tcp_syncookies
tcp throughput increase
TS-ECR for RTT
use RTT for RTO
ipv6 UDP tunnel segment
ipv6 RFC 6980
ipv6 RFC 3810
bridge multicast snoop
macvland fdb
physical port sysfs
igmp unsolicited report
tcp_probe ipv6
netfilter ipv6 SYNPROXY
reduced txpower 5/10Mhz
5/10Mhz scanning IBSS
openvswitch SCTP
pkt_sched fair queueing
USBNET USB3 throughput
OMAP SHAM
OMAP SHA384/SHA512
NEON XOR
vfio-pci hot reset
64bit PV guest NMIs

